The President:
Hi, everybody.
Today, I want to take a break
from the back-and-forth of
campaign season and talk about
something that's brought us all
together this week --
the Summer Olympics.
These games remind us that
for all our differences,
we're Americans first.
And we could not be prouder of
the men and women representing
our country in London, in
both the Olympics and in
the Paralympics.
Last weekend, Michelle led the
American delegation to London
and reaffirmed the special
relationship we share with our
strongest ally, Great Britain.
She met with the Queen, and
with Prime Minister Cameron's
wife, Samantha.
She spent some time thanking
our brave service members and
military families.
And, of course, she took in
as many events as she could to
cheer on our athletes.
I've got to admit I was a little
jealous that she got to go.
But like many of you, I caught
as many events as I could,
jumping off the couch for a
close race, or a perfect vault.
I watched the wonderful young
women of our gymnastics team
recapture the team
gold for America,
and I was filled with pride
watching Gabby Douglas win the
all-around gold with
incredible poise and grace.
I watched our swimmers
win a haul of medals,
and Michael Phelps become the
most decorated Olympic athlete
of all time.
I saw our women's soccer team
power through the competition.
And I'm just as proud of all our
athletes in sports that don't
always get as much attention.
The U.S. women's eight continued
its rowing dominance with
another gold medal.
Kayla Harrison won America's
first-ever gold medal in Judo,
and Marti Malloy won a bronze.
Kim Rhode became the first
American to win individual
medals in five straight Olympics
with her gold in skeet shooting;
and her teammate, Army
Sergeant Vincent Hancock,
won his second skeet gold.
I also thought of the truly
difficult journeys that many of
our athletes have made.
Some have faced personal
loss, or beaten cancer.
Some have worked long shifts
at multiple jobs to feed their
Olympic dream.
And some have done
the impossible.
Less than four years ago,
Bryshon Nellum was shot three
times in his legs.
But this week, he'll
run the 400 meters.
And as a boy, Lopez Lomong fled
war and persecution and life as
a refugee -- one of the
"Lost Boys" of Sudan.
Today, he's an American -- and
representing his country at the
Olympics for the second time.
So it's no surprise America
is vying for the top of the
medal count.
But it's not the medal count
alone that inspires us --
most of our athletes won't
claim a medal at all.
It's the character of the
men and women who compete for
those medals.
It's their hard work
and sacrifice --
the countless hours in the
gym, in the pool, on the track.
It's their dogged perseverance
and unyielding determination,
through disappointment
and triumph alike.
It's that unconquerable spirit
-- that American spirit --
that says even though we may
have very different stories to
tell; even though we may not all
look alike or talk alike or be
dealt the same hand in
life -- if we work hard,
we can achieve our dreams.
We can make it if we try.
We are one people, with
common values and ideals;
we celebrate
individual excellence,
but recognize that only together
can we accomplish great and
important things we
cannot accomplish alone.
That's why we watch.
That's why we cheer.
That's why we come together,
for two weeks in summer,
and swell with pride at the
incredible things our fellow
citizens can do.
And so, to all our Olympic
and Paralympic athletes --
whether you've already competed
or have yet to compete --
your country could
not be prouder of you.
Thank you for presenting the
best of America to the rest
of the world.
And thank you for becoming new
role models to our children --
mine included -- and inspiring
them to believe that if they
work hard and do their
best, they can achieve
great things, too.
Go get 'em this week, Team USA.
We can't wait to
welcome you home.
God bless you, and
God bless America.